---
name: ai-regression-testing
description: Use when reproducing a defect or verifying that a code change does not reintroduce known failures.
metadata:
  origin: ECC
---

# Regression Testing

Turn a reported failure into a reproducible check of observable behavior. Regression coverage complements new-feature acceptance tests; it does not prohibit them or guarantee that a defect can never recur.

1. Identify the expected behavior, failing input, affected path and revision. Reproduce the failure with the smallest relevant test before the fix when feasible. A setup error is not reproduction; explain if the old failing revision cannot be tested.
2. Inspect the package manifests, available test runner, fixtures and scripts. Use the repository's package manager and package scope. Record which tests were actually discovered and executed. A missing script, zero tests, skipped suite, absent command or recursive wrapper exiting zero is not a passing test result. If infrastructure is absent, report the gap and the concrete setup work needed; perform useful available checks without claiming equivalence.
3. Inspect build and pre/post scripts for side effects. In Altera, server `build` includes `prisma migrate deploy`; use the inspected non-migrating `build:ci` for its stated checks. Do not use production migration or unknown-database mutation as a build check. Database tests need a confirmed isolated test target. A successful type/build check does not prove database behavior.
4. After the fix, rerun the reproduction and the relevant adjacent tests. Cover actual alternate paths and mocks only if present; do not invent sandbox flags, bypass authentication, or replace the framework to use an example.

For a GraphQL contract change, execute an operation selecting the field and inspect `data` and `errors`, not HTTP status alone. Cover a populated value and nullable/empty case; check schema, resolver mapping, Prisma selection, client expectations and applicable authorization/validation failures. For UI defects, assert the intended visible state and error/recovery behavior, including stale responses or rollback when relevant.

Return the tested revision/artifact, cases and commands actually run, results/counts and evidence location, and unverified areas. Distinguish application failures, flaky results and environment blockers. Preserve the original defect and attempt history; after two consecutive failures of the same check within a stage, stop that check and return the accumulated evidence to the orchestrator (Altera operating-model §5). Persist the task/stage/check_id counter across runs and actors; only a successful execution of that same check resets its counter. Independent review uses this evidence and does not replace executed checks.
